## Abstraction

`abstraction` in Java means hiding complex internal implementation details and exposing only the essential functionality to the outside. By using `abstraction`, code can be managed more cleanly, and developers can focus on important roles and structures.

- `abstract class`: It is an incomplete blueprint. Some features are implemented, but others are left empty, so it cannot be used to create objects on its own.
- `abstract method`: It is a method without a body. It defines only the method name, parameters, and return type, but contains no executable code.

To define an `abstract class`, simply place the abstract keyword before class. At this point, the `abstract class` cannot be used to create objects directly.

### Abstract Method

`abstract class` is an incomplete blueprint because it can contain `abstract methods`. `abstract method` do not have a body; they define rules that subclasses must implement. For this reason, `abstract method` is declared without a body and end with a semicolon.

```java
public abstract void showMainFeature();
```

`abstract method` is declared with the `abstract` keyword before the method name. Unlike normal methods, it does not include a method body and ends with a semicolon.

### Inheritance and Overriding

`abstract class` is completed by inheritance and method overriding. A subclass inherits the members of the abstract parent class and provides implementations for its abstract methods. If it does not implement all abstract methods, the subclass remains abstract and objects cannot be created from it.

The key idea of an `abstract class` is to enforce a common structure and rules, while allowing subclasses to provide situation-specific implementations.

## Interface

`interface` in Java helps address the limitations of inheritance by allowing different features to be combined and extended.

`interface` are useful in following occasions.

- Multiple Implementation: A class can implement multiple interfaces at the same time.
- Rule Enforcement: An interface can define methods that must be implemented.
- Role Separation: Design can focus on functionality rather than the type of class.
- Increased Flexibility: Code can depend on interfaces rather than concrete classes.

In Java, an `interface` is a contract that defines what a class must be able to do. When a class implements an interface, it guarantees that the class provides implementations for the methods declared in that interface.

All methods declared in an interface must be accessible to everyone and must have an abstract form with only a method skeleton. Therefore, Java automatically adds the `public abstract` keyword to interface methods.

### Implementing Interface

```java
public interface Reportable {  
    void report();  
}
```

New interface `Reportable` has been created, and an abstract method `report()` has been declared.

Any class that implements this interface must provide a `report()` method.

```java
public class NormalReporter implements Reportable {  
    @Override  
    public void report() {  
        System.out.println("Reporting...");  
    }  
}
```

```java
public class VideoReporter implements Reportable {  
    @Override  
    public void report() {  
        System.out.println("Saving Video...");  
    }  
}
```

Two classes, `NormalReporter` and `VideoReporter`, were created to implement the `Reportable` interface. Once implements `Reportable` is written, both classes are required to implement the `report()` method defined in the interface. 

Each class implements it differently: one provides a reporting feature, while the other provides a video-saving feature.

```java
public class Main {  
    public static void main(String[] args) {  
  
        Reportable normalReporter = new NormalReporter();  
        normalReporter.report();  
        Reportable videoReporter = new VideoReporter();  
        videoReporter.report();  
    }  
}
```
```
Outcome

Reporting...
Saving Video...
```

In the `Main` class, two different objects, `NormalReporter` and `VideoReporter` were created using the `Reportable` type. This shows that multiple implementation objects can be managed uniformly through a single interface type.

`FactoryCam` class is a child class of the `Camera` class. It extends the `Camera` class and also implements the `Reportable` interface.

```java
public class FactoryCam extends Camera implements Reportable {  
  
    private Reportable reportable;  
    public void setReportable(Reportable reportable) {  
        this.reportable = reportable;  
    }  
  
    @Override  
    public void showMainFeature() {  
        System.out.println("Feature: Detects Fire");  
    }  
  
    @Override  
    public void report() {  
        reportable.report();  
    }  
}
```

`FactoryCam` accepts an external object that provides the required functionality and installs it into the camera. Rather than performing the operation itself, the class delegates the task to the implemented interface.

```java
public class Main {  
    public static void main(String[] args) {  
  
        Reportable normalReporter = new NormalReporter();  
        Reportable videoReporter = new VideoReporter();  
  
        FactoryCam factoryCam = new FactoryCam();  
  
        factoryCam.setReportable(normalReporter);  
        factoryCam.report();  
        factoryCam.setReportable(videoReporter);  
        factoryCam.report();  
    }  
}
```
```
Outcome

Reporting...
Saving Video...
```

By replacing the component in `setReportable()` with different objects, different results were produced. 

In this way, once an `interface` defines a standard specification for a feature, any implementation can be used freely as long as it follows that specification. As a result, the code becomes much more flexible, the functionality becomes easier to reuse, and new features or performance improvements can be handled without modifying the existing code.
