
`loop statement` is a type of control statement that allows java to repeat the code under the given condition. 
`loop Statement` will allow to design a control flow that automates repetitive task.


## for Loop

`for loop` makes designated code to repeat for as many as times that `for loop` wants.

### Basic structure

```java
for (initialization; condition; update expression) {
	// code to execute repeatedly
}
```
- `initialization` sets the starting value of the loop variable.
- `condition` determines whether the loop continues
- `update expression` changes the loop variable after each iteration.

### Example
```java
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
	System.out.println(i);
}
```
```
Outcome

0
1
2
3
4
```
1. `initialization`: `int i = 0;` is executed, so `i` becomes 0. (This runs only once at the beginning.)
2. `condition` check: The program checks whether 'i' is less than 5. Since 0 < 5, the loop continues.
3. Code Execution: The code inside { } runs and prints 0.
4. Value Update(`update expression`): `i++` is executed, so `i` becomes 1.
5. Repeat: The program repeats steps 2 - 4.
6. Termination: When `i` becomes 5, the condition 5 < 5 becomes false, so the loop ends.

By using a `for loop`, you can clearly organize the number of repetitions and the code to execute, making the program much easier to read and manage.

## while Loop

`while loop` is used when the number of repetitions is not fixed and the loop should continue as long as a certain condition is satisfied.

### Basic structure

```java
while (condition) {
	// code to execute repeatedly
}
```

If the `condition` is true, the code in between the curly braces executes repeatedly.

### Example

```java
int distance = 25;
int move = 0;

while (move < distance) {
	System.out.println("Kick a leg")
	System.out.println("Current travel distance: " + move + "m")
	move += 3;
}
```
```
Outcome

Kick a leg
Current travel distance: 0m
Kick a leg
Current travel distance: 3m

...

Kick a leg
Current travel distance: 24m
```
1. Initial value of `move` is 0. Since 0 < 25 is true, the code is executed and `move` becomes 3.
2. Code also executes when `move` is 3 and move becomes 6.
3. Repeat step 1 - 2.
4. Once `move` reaches 27, `while statement` terminates since 27 < 25 is false.

The following points must be checked when writing a `while loop`;
- There is a code that changes condition.
- `Condition` have a structure that will eventually become false.


## do-while Loop

`while loop` repeatedly executes code as long as a condition is satisfied.
In other words, if the condition is not satisfied from the beginning, the code inside the `while loop` will not execute even once.
`do-while loop`executes the code once first, and then checks the condition to determine whether to continue repeating.

### Basic structure

```java
do {
	//code to execute at least once
} while (condition);
```

Java will execute the code once, and if the condition is true, it will repeat until the condition is false.

### do-while loop vs while loop

|                                 | while loop                                 | do-while loop                           |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| Execution order                 | 1. Condition check<br>2. Code execution    | 1. Code execution<br>2. Condition check |
| Minimum Number<br>of Executions | 0(if the condition is false)               | 1<br>(Code is executed at least once)   |
| Use Cases                       | When the code might not need to run at all | When the code must run at least once    |

## nested loop

`nested loop`, as the name suggests, is a structure where one loop is placed inside another loop. By using, `nested loop`, you can make the computer to perform two-dimensional tasks.

### Example

```java
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++ ) {
	for (int j = 0; j < 5; j++) {
	System.out.print("*");
	}
	System.out.println();
}
```
```
Outcome

*****
*****
*****
*****
*****
```
1. The outer `for loop` repeats 5 times from `i = 0` to `i < 5`. This loop determines the number of rows.
2. For each row, the inner `for loop` repeats 5 times from `j = 0` to `j < 5`. This loop determines the number of `*` printed in one row.
3. `System.out.print(*);` prints `*` without moving to the next line. As a result, `*****` is created on one line.
4. After the inner loop finishes, `System.out.println();` is executed. This moves to the next line and repeats the same process.


## break

Loops repeatedly execute code either a fixed number of times or while a certain condition is satisfied. However, `break` allows the loop to stop immediately when a specific condition is met, even before all repetitions are completed.

### Example
```java
int max = 5;
for (int i = 1; i <= 10; i++) { 
	System.out.println(i)
	
	if (i == max) {
	break;
	}
}
```
```
Outcome

1
2
3
4
5
```
The loop starts from 1 and increases by 1. When `i` becomes 5, the break statement executes. The loop stops immediately.

`break` can be used in `while loop` as well.

## continue

`continue` is used when you want to skip only a specific iteration without completely ending the loop, and continue with the next iteration. If `break` is a signal to completely stop the loop, `continue` is a signal to skip only the current turn.

```java
for (int i = 1; i <= 10; i++) {
	if (i == 3) {
		continue;
	}
	if ( i == 7) {
		break;
	}
	
	System.out.println(i);
}
```
```
Outcome

1
2
4
5
6
```
- The loop repeats from 1 to 10.
- When `i == 3` continues skips the current iteration.
- When `i == 7`, break immediately stops the loop.
- All other numbers are printed.

`continue` can be used in `while loop` as well.


## for loop vs while loop

`for loop` is used when the number of repetitions is known and `while loop` is used when the repetition depends on a condition.

### for loop

Use a `for loop` when the number of repetitions is already known.

- Repeating 10 times
-  Looping through an array
-  Counting from 1 to 100

### while loop

Use a `while loop` when the number of repetitions is unknown and depends on a condition.

- Waiting for user input
- Running until a password is correct
- Game loops
- Reading data until the end

