 
`array` is a way to manage multiple pieces of similar data under a single name instead of storing them in separate variables. `array` allows data to be stored efficiently and can be used together with loops to process multiple values more effectively.


## Array list

Using an `array` allows multiple pieces of data to be grouped and managed under a single name more simply. This is a similar to carrying several books in a backpack instead of carrying each book separately.

### Array declaration and initialization

The most basic way to create an `array` is to first allocate storage and then fill each element one by one. When creating an `array` this way, two things must be specified;
- what type of data the `array` will store
- how many values it will contain

```java
String[] coffees = new String[4];

coffees[0] = "Americano";
coffees[1] = "Mocha";
coffees[2] = "Latte";
coffees[3] = "Cappuccino"
```

- `String[] coffes`: Create an `array` that can store multiple `String` datas and name it `coffees`.
- `new String[4]`: Create a storage for 4 `String` datas.
- `coffees[0] = "Americano"`: Store `"Americano"` at first element of `coffes`. 

The most important concept here is the `index`. Each element in an `array` is automatically assigned a number starting from 0, and this number is called `index`.

In the case of the `coffees`, it works as;


| index | 0           | 1       | 2       | 3            |
| ----- | ----------- | ------- | ------- | ------------ |
| value | "Americano" | "Mocha" | "Latte" | "Cappuccino" |

`array` also can be declared and initialized as 

```java
String[] coffees = {"Americano", "Mocha", "Latte", "Cappuccino"};
```

This approach creates the `array` and initializes its values at the same time.

You simply list the values inside curly braces({}) separated by commas(,). Java automatically determines the size of the `array` based on the provided values, so there is  no need to specify the size manually.

This approach produces the same result as the previous method, but it is more convenient because repetitive assignments can be omitted.

`array` can only store a same type of data as declared. `int`, `double`, `boolean` can all used as an `array`.

### for Loop

```java
String[] coffees = {"Americano", "Mocha", "Latte", "Cappuccino"};
for (int i = 0; i < coffes.length; i++) {
	System.out.println(coffees[i]);
}
```

You can use `for loop` in order to print out an `array`. It replaces the multiple `System.out.println()` which makes the code clearer.

### Enhanced for loop

An `enhanced for loop` instructs the program to repeatedly perform on operation on each element stored in an `array`.

```java
String[] coffees = {"Americano", "Mocha", "Latte", "Cappuccino"};

for(String coffee : coffees) {
	System.out.println(coffee);
}
```
```
Outcome

Americano
Mocha
Latte
Cappuccino
```

An `enhanced for loop` is written by listing the `array` to iterate through and a variable that stores the current element, separated by a colon(:), as shown above.

It takes out each value from the `coffee` array one by one, and store it in the `coffee` variable.

The biggest feature of the `enhanced for loop` is that there is no need to manage an index variable manually. As a result, the code becomes much cleaner, and the intention of processing all elements in order becomes clearer.


## Multidimensional Array

### Creating 2 dimensional array

```java

String[][] seats = new String [][] {
	{"A1", "A2", "A3", "A4", "A5"},
	{"B1", "B2", "B3", "B4", "B5"},
	{"C1", "C2", "C3", "C4", "C5"}
};
```

The example above creates a `two dimensional array` consisting of 3 rows and 5 columns.
First curly braces represents the rows, and the second curly braces represents the columns.

```java
String [rows] [columns]
```

You can access a specific value in a `two dimensional array` by providing the appropriate row ad column `index`.

### Jagged array

`jagged array` is a type of multidimensional array that there are different numbers of columns in each rows.

```java
String[][] seats2 = {
	{"A1", "A2", "A3"},
	{"B1", "B2", "B3", "B4"},
	{"C1", "C2", "C3", "C4"}
};
```

### Multidimension array and for loop


```java
String[][] seats = new string[][]{
	{"A1", "A2", "A3", "A4", "A5"},
	{"B1", "B2", "B3", "B4", "B5"},
	{"C1", "C2", "C3", "C4", "C5"}
};

for (int i = 0; i < seats.length; i++) {
	for (int j = 0; j < seats[i].length; j++) {
	System.out.print(seats2[i][j] + " ");
	}
	System.out.println();
}
```
```
Outcome

A1 A2 A3 A4 
B1 B2 B3 B4 
C1 C2 C3 C4 
```

- Outer `loop statement` takes care of row. If `i` is 0, it refers first row.
- Inner `loop statement` takes care of column. Once every outer `loop statmeent` is executed, inner `loop statement` executes repeatedly.
- `seats[i][j]` refers `i`th row `j`th column.
- `seats.length`: length of rows of `two dimension array`
- `seats[i].length`: length of column of `i`th row.

### Using for loop to create multi dimension array

In case of it is a big size of `multidimensional array`, we can use `for loop` to fill up the data.

```java
String[][] seats = new String[10][15];  
  
String[] eng = {"A", "B", "C", "D", "E", "F", "G", "H", "I", "J"};  
  
for (int i = 0; i < seats.length; i++) {  
    for (int j = 0; j < seats[i].length; j++) {  
        seats[i][j] = eng[i] + (j+1);  
    }  
}
```

The key part of the code is the following line;

```java
seats[i][j] = eng[i] + (j + 1);
```

- `eng[i]`: If `i` is 0, it retrieves "A"; if 1, "B"; ... if 9, "J". In other words, it determines the row name of the seat.
- `(j + 1)`: Since `j` starts from 0, adding 1 sets the set numbers from 1 to 15.
- `+`: Combines the two values to create seat label strings such as "A1", "A2", ... "J15". This value is stored in `seats[i][j]`, and vacant `two dimensional array` is filled with an actual data.


## ASCII Code

ASCII Code stands for American Standard Code Information Interchange. It is a standard system that assigns a unique number to each alphabet letter, digit, and special character.

### Example

```java
String[][] seats = new String[10][15];  
char ch = 'A';  
  
for(int i = 0; i < seats.length; i++){  
    for(int j = 0; j < seats[i].length; j++){  
        seats[i][j] = String.valueOf(ch) + (j + 1);  
        System.out.print(seats[i][j] + " ");  
    }  
    ch++;  
    System.out.println();  
}
```
```
Outcome

A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A6 A7 A8 A9 A10 A11 A12 A13 A14 A15 
B1 B2 B3 B4 B5 B6 B7 B8 B9 B10 B11 B12 B13 B14 B15 
C1 C2 C3 C4 C5 C6 C7 C8 C9 C10 C11 C12 C13 C14 C15 
D1 D2 D3 D4 D5 D6 D7 D8 D9 D10 D11 D12 D13 D14 D15 
E1 E2 E3 E4 E5 E6 E7 E8 E9 E10 E11 E12 E13 E14 E15 
F1 F2 F3 F4 F5 F6 F7 F8 F9 F10 F11 F12 F13 F14 F15 
G1 G2 G3 G4 G5 G6 G7 G8 G9 G10 G11 G12 G13 G14 G15 
H1 H2 H3 H4 H5 H6 H7 H8 H9 H10 H11 H12 H13 H14 H15 
I1 I2 I3 I4 I5 I6 I7 I8 I9 I10 I11 I12 I13 I14 I15 
J1 J2 J3 J4 J5 J6 J7 J8 J9 J10 J11 J12 J13 J14 J15 
```

ASCII code is commonly used when programs need to process characters as numeric values. It can be used for character conversion, alphabet calculations, text processing, character comparison, encryption logic, and keyboard or file input handling.