
## Inheritance

`Inheritance` means that one class inherits the fields and methods of another class.

There are 3 types of `camera` that we are going to use.

- `Camera`: General `Camera` class that has basic camera features, such as taking photos and recording videos.

- `SpeedCam`: A camera with an added speed enforcement feature on top of the basic functions.

- `FactoryCam`: A camera with an added fire detection feature on top of the basic functions.

`Camera` Class

```java
public class Camera {  
    public String name;  
    public Camera() {  
        this.name = "Camera";  
    }  
      
    public void takePicture() {  
          
    }  
      
    public void recordVideo() {  
      
    }  
}
```

`SpeedCam` Class

```java
public class SpeedCam {  
    public String name;  
    public SpeedCam() {  
        this.name = "Speed Camera";  
    }  
      
    public void takePicture() {  
          
    }  
      
    public void recordVideo() {  
      
    }  
      
    public void checkSpeed() {  
          
    }  
      
    public void recognizeLicensePlate() {  
      
    }  
}
```

`FactoryCam` Class

```java
public class FactoryCam {  
    public String name;  
    public FactoryCam() {   
        this.name = "Factory Camera";  
    }  
      
    public void takePicture() {  
          
    }  
      
    public void recordVideo() {  
      
    }  
      
    public void detectFire() {  
          
    }  
}
```

`Inheritance` allows us to create a `parent class` that contains common functionality, and then create `child class` that inherit that functionality while adding new features.

`child class` inherits from a parent class by using `extends` keyword.

```java
public class SpeedCam extends Camera {    
    public SpeedCam() {  
        this.name = "Speed Camera";  
    }  
  
    public void checkSpeed() {  
  
    }  
  
    public void recognizeLicensePlate() {  
  
    }  
}
```

```java
public class FactoryCam extends Camera {  
    public FactoryCam() {  
        this.name = "Factory Camera";  
    }  
  
    public void detectFire() {  
  
    }  
}
```

`inheritance` removes duplicated code. Although the inherited code is not directly shown inside the `child class`, the `child class` still receives the `parent class`'s variables and methods, so it can use those features normally.


## Method Overriding

`method overriding` is redefining a method inherited from a `parent class` in a `child class`.

`method overriding` can be done simply by rewriting the method body from a `parent class`.

At this time, the `@override` annotation can be used to prevent various mistakes.

- Clarifies the developer's intention
	- It clearly shows that the method is intended to override a method inherited from the parent class.

- Compile-time error checking
	- The compiler checks whether the corresponding method actually exists in the parent class.


## Polymorphism

`polymorphism` means that different objects can be treated uniformly through one common type.

Even though they are referenced as the same type, the actual behavior depends on each object.

### IS-A Relationship

`IS-A Relationship` means that one class is a type of another class.

It is usually created through inheritance. 

For example, if `SpeedCam extends Camera`, then `SpeedCam` is a `Camera`. However, `Camera` can not be a `SpeedCam`.

### Creating an object using the parent class type

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {  
 Camera camera = new Camera();  
 Camera speedCamera = new SpeedCam();  
 Camera factoryCamera = new FactoryCam();  
  
 camera.showMainFeature();  
 speedCamera.showMainFeature();  
 factoryCamera.showMainFeature();  
}
```

Both `facoryCamera` and `speedCamera` are declared as the `Camera` type.

However, when `showMainFeature()` is called, each object executes the method defined in its own class.

In other words, although the reference type is the parent class, the actual method execution depends on the child class object. This is the key idea of polymorphism.

However, methods that exist only in the child class cannot be called directly through the parent class reference.

### Accessing Child-Specific Methods

1. Checking the actual object type with `instanceof`

	`instanceof` is an operator used to check whether an object belongs to a specific class type.

	If the result is true, it means the object is either an instance of that class or and instance of a subclass that inherits from that class.

	If the result is false, it means the object is not a type of that class.

2. Converting back to the child class type through casting

	Converting a parent type back to a child type is called downcasting. Java does not perform downcasting automatically, so the cast must be written explicitly.

	Converting a child type to a parent type is called upcasting. Java performs upcasting automatically because a child object is also a type of its parent class.

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {  
    Camera[] cameras = new Camera[3];  
    cameras[0] = new Camera();  
    cameras[1] = new SpeedCam();  
    cameras[2] = new FactoryCam();  
  
    for (Camera camera : cameras) {  
        camera.showMainFeature();  
  
        if (camera instanceof SpeedCam) {  
            ((SpeedCam) camera).checkSpeed();  
            ((SpeedCam) camera).recognizeLicensePlate();  
        } else if (camera instanceof FactoryCam) {  
            ((FactoryCam) camera).detectFire();  
        }  
    }  
}
```

## Super

 `super` keyword allows an overridden method to access the parent class's original method implementation.

```java
public void recordVideo() {
	System.out.println("Recording Video...");
	detectFire();
}
```

This code can be written as

```java
public void recordVideo() {
	super.recordVideo();
	detectFire();
}
```

This feature becomes more useful as the code becomes longer and more complex.

### super()

`super` keyword can be used to call the parent class constructor through `super()`.

`super()` is used in the following cases:

- When the parent class variables are declared as `private`, so the child class cannot access them directly

- When the parent class constructor contains complex initialization logic beyond simply setting a name

```java
public class Camera {  
  
    public String name;  
    public Camera() {  
        this("Camera");  
    }  
      
    protected Camera(String name) {  
        this.name = name;  
    }
}
```

```java
public class SpeedCam extends Camera {  
  
    public SpeedCam() {  
        super("Speed Camera");  
    }
}
```


In the `SpeedCam` class, `super("Speed Camera")` calls the parent class constructor `protected Camera(String name)`.


## Primitive Type and Reference Type

`primitive type` stores actual value directly, and their initialization rules depend on where variable is declared.

`reference type` is non-primitive type. Their variables store references (memory addresses) to objects, not the objects' actual values.

### Primitive Type

When values are assigned between `primitive type` variables, the value itself is copied, not a reference to another variable. Therefore, the two variables become completely independent of each other. Changing the value of one variable does not affect the other. In this sense, the way primitive types work is relatively intuitive.

### Reference Type

When `reference type` variables are assigned to each other, the object itself is not copied. Instead, the memory address of the object is copied. As a result, both variables refer to the same object. Therefore, if the object is modified through one variable, the change can also be observed through the other variable.

### Null and NullPointerException

`reference type` variable does not store an object itself; it stores a reference to an object. If you want to remove that reference, assign `null` to the variable.

A variable with the value `null` does not point to any object. Therefore, accessing a field or method through that variable causes a `NullPointerException`.

`NullPointerException` occurs when a program tries to use a reference variable that does not refer to any object. A basic way to prevent it is to check for `null` before accessing the variable.

```java
if (c2 != null) {
	System.out.println(c2.name);
} else {
	System.out.println("c2 is empty");
}
```


## Final

`final` keyword is used when a value must remain unchanged after the initialization, or when important behavior should be protected from unintended modification by other code. Proper use of final improves code stability and clearly expresses the programmer's intent.

```java
public class ActionCam extends Camera{  
    public final String lens;  
    public ActionCam() {  
        super("Action Camera");  
        this.lens = "Wide Angle Lens";  
    }  
}
```

In this example, the `lens` variable is declared as `final`, which prevents its value from being reassigned. Therefore, any attempt to modify the `lens` of `ActionCam` results in a compile-time error: `cannot assign a value to fainal variable lens`.

A variable declared with `final` can be used as a constant A `final` variable can be assigned only once, and it can be initialized in one of two ways.

1. **At the time of declaration**: the value is assigned immediately when the variable is created.

2. **Inside the constructor**: the variable is declared first, and its value is assigned in the constructor when the object is created.

### Final Method

A method declared with the `final` keyword can be inherited by child classes, but it cannot be overridden. This is useful when a parent class defines important behavior that should not be changed by subclasses. For example, if a `Camera` class has a `final` method for starting video recording, an `ActionCam` class can use that method, but it cannot redefine it. In this way, `final` methods help protect important logic and make the intended behavior of the program clearer.

### Final Class

`final class ` is a class that cannot be inherited by other classes. It is used when the class's behavior should not be extended or modified through subclassing. For example, if `ActionCam` is declared as `final`, another class cannot create a subclass such as `AdvancedActionCam extends ActionCam`.


## Enum

`enum` is a special Java type used to define a fixed set of related constants. It is used when a variable should only have one value from a limited group of valid options, such as camera modes, days of the week, directions, or order status. Using an `enum` makes the code safer and clearer because it prevents invalid values and avoids mistakes cause by using plain strings or numbers.

### Creating Enum

```java
enum Resolution {  
    HD, FHD, QHD  
}
```

To define an `enum`, use the `enum` keyword to declare an `enum` type, then list its fixed constant values inside curly braces, separated by commas.

`enum` constant names cannot be numbers, but `enum` constants can store numeric values.

An `enum` and an `array` have different purposes. An `enum` is used to define a fixed set of valid choices as a type, such as `PHOTO`, `VIDEO`, and `NIGHT` for camera modes. It helps prevent invalid values and makes the meaning of the code clearer. An `array`, on the other hand, is used to store multiple values in order and access them by index. In short, an `enum` defines what values are allowed, while an `array` stores a collection of values.

### Using Enum

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {  
    Resolution resolution;  
    resolution = Resolution.HD;  
    System.out.println("current resolution: " + resolution);  
    resolution = Resolution.QHD;  
    System.out.println("changed resolution: " + resolution);  
}
```
```
Outcome

current reosolution: HD
changed resolution: QHD
```

In the `main` method, an `enum` is used by declaring a variable of the `enum` type and assigning it one of the predefined `enum` values.

`enum` can be used with a `switch-case` statement to execute different code depending on the `enum` value.

```java
switch(resolution) {
	case HD:
		System.out.println("HD");
		break;
	
	case FHD:
		System.out.println("FHD");
		break;
		
	case QHD:
		System.out.println("QHD");
		break;
}
```

### Method for Enum

`enum` can also define their own fields and methods. This means an `enum` is not merely a collection of constants, but a special class like type that can store data and provide behavior.

- `values()`: returns all `enum` constants as an `array`. 
- `name()`: returns the constant's name as a `String`.
- `ordinal()`: returns the order in which the constant is declared, starting from 0.

```java
Resolution resolution;  
    for (Resolution myRes : Resolution.values()) {  
        System.out.println(myRes.name() + ": " + myRes.ordinal());  
    }  
}
```
```
Outcome

HD: 0
FHD: 1
QHD: 2
```

`Resolution.values()` returns all enum constants in declaration order. Therefore, `HD`, `FHD`, and `QHD` are stored in `myRes` one at a time, and `ordinal()` outputs their positions as `0`, `1`, and `2`.

## Assigning Custom Values to Enum Constants

A Java `enum` can have more than just constant names. You can assign a custom value directly to each enum constant. To do this, you define fields, a constructor, and getter methods inside the enum.

```java
enum Resolution {
    HD(1280),
    FHD(1920),
    UHD(3840);

    private final int width;

    Resolution(int width) {
        this.width = width;
    }

    public int getWidth() {
        return width;
    }
}
```

The key point is `HD(1280)`

`1280` is the custom value assigned to the HD enum constant. This field stores the value that each `enum` constant has.

```java
Resolution(int width) {
	this.width = width;
}
```

This constructor receives the value when the `enum` constant is created and stores it in the field.

An `enum` can define multiple fields, and each `enum` constant can be given multiple values separted by commas.