

## Arithmetic Operator

When the outcome of division comes out as a decimal, Java automatically rounds down the decimal to an integer.

| Symbol | Name     | Role           | Example |
| ------ | -------- | -------------- | ------- |
| `+`    | plus     | addition       | `4 + 2` |
| `-`    | minus    | subtraction    | `4 - 2` |
| `*`    | asterisk | multiplication | `4 × 2` |
| `/`    | slash    | division       | `4 % 2` |


## Modulo Operator

Use the `%` operator.

### Symbol
```java
System.out.println(4 % 2);
```
It will return 0.

### Frequently Used Circumstances

- Determining whether a number is odd or even.
- Finding multiples.
- Periodic task processing: useful when implementing an action repeated at fixed intervals.


## Increment and Decrement Operator

It is used when the value is increased or decreased by 1.

### Symbol
```
++, --
```
  

### Prefix Increment/Decrement Operator

It increases/decreases the value, saves it, and then prints it out.

#### Example
```java
int val = 10;

System.out.println(val);
System.out.println(++val);
System.out.println(val);
``` 
```text
Outcome

10
11
11
```

### Postfix Increment/Decrement Operator

It prints out the value, increases/decreases it, and then saves it.

  
#### Example
```java
int val = 10;

System.out.println(val);
System.out.println(val++);
System.out.println(val);
```
```
Outcome

10
10
11
```

## Assignment Operator

Renewing the value of the variable.

### Example
```java
int num = 10;
num = num + 2;
```
``` text 
However, it can be simplified using a compound assignment operator.
```
```java
int num = 10;

num += 2;

num -= 2;

num *= 2;

num /= 2;
```


## Comparison Operator

Comparison operators allow Java to determine whether something is true or not.

### Comparing the Size of Numbers

#### Symbol

-  `>`: Left-hand side is greater than right-hand side 
-  `<`: Left-hand side is less than right-hand side
-  `>=`: Left-hand side is greater than or equal to right-hand side 
-  `<=`: Left-hand side is less than or equal to right-hand side 

### Comparing Whether It Is Equal or Not

- Symbol: `==`, `!=`

	- `=`: stores the right-hand side value to the left-hand side variable.

	- `==`: compares whether the right-hand side equals the left-hand side.

	- `!=`: compares whether the right-hand side is not equal to the left-hand side.


## Logical Operator

Used to logically express complex circumstances.

### OR Operator

#### Symbol
```java
||
```
It is used when only one condition among many needs to be satisfied.

Let's say we visited a restaurant and we are looking for one of the sandwich, fries, or soup.

```java
boolean sandwich = false;
boolean fries = false;
boolean soup = true;

System.out.println(sandwich || fries || soup);
```
```
Outcome

true // Since there is soup
```

### AND Operator

#### Symbol
```java
&&
```
It is the operator that concludes as true when all conditions are satisfied.

```java
boolean sandwich = false;
boolean fries = false;
boolean soup = true;

System.out.println(sandwich && fries && soup);
```
```text
Outcome

false // There is no sandwich and fries
```


## Ternary Operator

A `ternary operator` is an operator that takes **three operands**: a condition, a value returned when the condition is true, and a value returned when the condition is false. It declare the variable according to the condition.

### Symbol
```java

variable = (condition) ? valueWhenTrue : valueWhenFalse;

```
If the variable satisfy the condition, it will be the valueWhenTrue. 
If not, it will be the valueWhenFalse.