

## Method

`method` is a block of code that performs a specific task and helps make a program more concise and organized. `method` have a structure that groups code performing a specific function into one box-like unit, gives it a name, and allows it to be called whenever needed.

`method` is used to organize code into reusable blocks. They help reduce repetition, improve readability, and make programs easier to maintain. 

### Definition and call

`method` definition: process of defining a code block that will perform a specific function
`method` call: process of calling a previously defined code block to actually use it

### Example

```java
public static void sayHello() {
	System.out.println("Hello")
}

public static void main(String[] args) {
	sayHello();
}
```
```
Outcome

Hello
```

- `sayHello()` method has been defined
- `Hello` is printed out as `sayHello` has been executed

## Argument and parameter

`argument` is the actual value that has been given to `method` when `method` is called. 
`parameter` is a variable that allows a method to receive values from outside when it is called.

```java
public static void power(int number) {
	int result = number * number;
	System.out.println(result);
}

public static void main(String[] args) {
	power(2);
	power(3);
}
```
```
Outcome

4
9
```

- `number` is `parameter` that has been set to receive value from outside.
- `2` and `3` are `argument` that has been given to the method.
- The `power` method received `2` and `3`.
- `4` and `9` has been returned as a result of `power` method.

Multiple arguments can be passed to a `method` by separating them with commas.

## Return value

`method` can send the result of its work back as a `return value`. `return value` allow us to store the result of a `method` in a variable, use it directly in another calculation, or combine multiple methods to create more complex logic.

### Example
```java
public static String getPhoneNumber() {
	String phoneNumber = "02-1234-5678";
	return phoneNumber;
}

public static void main(String[] args) {
	String contactNumber = getPhoneNumber();
	System.out.println(contactNumber);
}
```
```
Outcome

02-1234-5678
```
`getPhoneNumber()` has returned `phoneNumber`, which has been declared as `contactNumber`.


## Method Overloading

`method overloading` allows a class to have multiple methods with the same name, as long as their parameters are different in number, type, or order.

Java determine which `method` to execute according to the received `argument`'s number, type, or order.

```java
public static void printInfo(String name) {
    System.out.println("Name: " + name);
}

public static void printInfo(String name, int age) {
    System.out.println("Name: " + name);
    System.out.println("Age: " + age);
}

public static void printInfo(int age, String name) {
    System.out.println("Age: " + age);
    System.out.println("Name: " + name);
}
```

It is an example of `method overloading` for `printInfo`.


## Scope of Method

A variable can only be used within a certain range depending on where it is declared. This range is called `scope`.

### Scope of a Local Variable

A variable declared inside a method can usually be used only inside that method.

```java
public static void methodA() {
	System.out.println(number);
}

public static void main(String[] args) {
	int number = 3;
}
```

This causes an error because `number` can only exists inside the `main` method. It cannot be used inside another method such as `methodA()`.

### Block Scope

A variable declared inside {  } can only be used within that block.

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {
	for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
	}
	Systm.out.println(i)
}
```

This cause an error because `i` is declared inside the `for loop`, so it cannot be used outside the loop.

`scope` is important because it prevents errors, keeps code organized, prevents name conflicts, and helps memory management.


## Main Method

### Role of Main Method

The `main method` is the starting point of a Java program. It refers that Java can start running the program from this method, and it can also receive multiple text values through `String[] args` when the program is executed.

#### `public static void

- `public`: method can be accessed from anywhere
- `static`: method is prepared in advance and can be used without creating an object
- `void`: method does not return a value

#### `main

`main` is the name of the `method`.

Java looks for this `method` as the starting point of the program.

#### `String[] args`

- `String[]`: an array that can store multiple `String` values
- `args`: name given to that String array
