
`class` groups multiple related pieces of data into a single unit, allowing it to be used like a new data type.


## Class

### Object Oriented Programming

Object-oriented Programing is a programming paradigm that represents a program as a collection of independent objects that interact with one another.

In an object-oriented program, when a specific feature has a problem or needs improvement, you only need to modify the object responsible for that feature rather than changing the entire program. As a result, maintenance becomes much easier.

A well-designed object can be reused across different projects, not just in the current one. This helps reduce duplicate work and significantly improves overall development productivity.

### Creating Class

`class` is a blueprint or manual for creating objects. An object refers to an individual entity that a program manages or works with.

```java
public class BlackBox {

}
```

Now the class `BlackBox()` has been created. This can be used in main method.

```java
public class _01_Class {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		BlackBox bbox1 = new BlackBox();
		BlackBox bbox2 = new BlackBox();
	}
}
```

The objects `bbox1` and `bbox2` were created from the `BlackBox01` class. Therefore, `bbox1` and `bbox2` are instances of the `BlackBox01` class.



## Instance Variable

`instance variables` allow an empty class to be filled with actual data.

```java
public class BlackBox {
	String modelName;
	String resolution
	int price;
	String color;
}
```

Now, every object created from `BlackBox` class can hav its own information, such as `modelName`, `resolution`, `price` and `color`.

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {  
    BlackBox bbox1 = new BlackBox();  
    BlackBox bbox2 = new BlackBox();  
  
    bbox1.modelName = "bb1";  
    bbox1.resolution = "FHD";  
    bbox1.price = 100;  
	bbox1.color = "red";  
  
    System.out.println(bbox1.modelName);  
    System.out.println(bbox1.resolution);  
    System.out.println(bbox1.price);  
    System.out.println(bbox1.color);  
}  
```
```
Outcome

bb1
FHD
100
red
```

An object `bbox1` has been created. Then, each `modelName`, `resolution`, `price`, and `color` has been stored for `bbox1`.

New object `bbox2` can be easily created and declared using the same method. 

Each object stores and displays its own information independently, without affecting the others. Even though the two objects were created from the same class, they are separate independent entities in memory.


## Class Variable

`class variable` is used to store information shared by all objects of a class. Unlike `instance variable`, they do not belong to a specific object. Instead, they belong to the class itself and is shared across all objects created from that class.

```java
public class BlackBox {  
    String modelName;  
    String resolution;  
    int price;  
    String color;  
      
    static boolean canAutoReport = false;   
}
```

New variable `canAutoReport` has been added. 

At this point, a variable marked with `static` no longer belongs to one specific object. It becomes a variable that belongs to the entire class, and all objects created from that class share the same value.

`class variable` is appropriate when the same value needs to be shared across all objects of a class. They are useful for storing information that belongs to the class itself, not to individual objects.


## Instance Method

### Method with No Parameters and Return Value

```java
public class BlackBox {  
    String modelName;  
    String resolution;  
    int price;  
    String color;  
  
    static boolean canAutoReport = false;  
      
    void autoReport() {  
        if (canAutoReport) {  
            System.out.println("Crash has been automatically reported.");  
        } else {  
            System.out.println("Auto Report is unavailable.");  
        }  
    }  
}
```

When `autoReport()` method is called, appropriate message is printed according to `canAutoReport` value.

### Method with Parameters

```java
void insertMemoryCard(int capacity) {  
    System.out.println("Inserting memory card...");  
    System.out.println("Capacity: " + capacity + "GB");  
}
```

`capacity` is the parameter that refers the capacity of the memory card. 


## Method Overloading

New `record` method has been created.

```java
void record(boolean showDateTime, boolean showSpeed, int min) {  
    System.out.println("Recording...");  
      
    if(showDateTime) {  
        System.out.println("Showing Date and Time");  
    }  
      
    if(showSpeed) {  
        System.out.println("Showing Speed");  
    }  
      
    System.out.println("Video is recorded every " + min + " minutes");  
}
```

It can be used in main method for different circumstances.

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {  
    BlackBox bbox1 = new BlackBox();  
  
    bbox1.modelName = "bbox1";  
  
    System.out.println("Scenario 1");  
    bbox1.record(false, false, 10);  
  
    System.out.println("\nScenario 2");  
    bbox1.record(true, false, 3);  
  
    System.out.println("\nScenario 3");  
    bbox1.record(true, true, 5);  
}
```
```
Outcome

Scenario 1
Recording...
Video is recorded every 10 minutes

Scenario 2
Recording...
Showing Date and Time
Video is recorded every 3 minutes

Scenario 3
Recording...
Showing Date and Time
Showing Speed
Video is recorded every 5 minutes
```

Same method executes different acts according to the parameters.

However, entering parameters one by one can be inconvenient. In this case, `method overloading` can be used to created a method with default settings.

```java
void record() {
	record(true, true, 5)
}
```

`record()` method internally calls the existing `record(boolean, boolean, int)` method internally with frequently used default values: `true`, `true`, and `5`. It acts like a shortcut for running commonly used settings at once.


## Class Method

`class method` is a method that belong to the class itself, not to a specific object. In Java, They are declared using the `static` keyword and can be called directly through the class name.

The main feature of a class method is that it can be used without creating an object. Because it belongs to the class itself rather than to a specific object, it can be called directly using the class name.

`class method` cannot access `instance variable` because `instance variable` cannot be used without an object. However, `class varialbe` can be used inside `class methods` without any problem.

`class method` should be used when the behavior is related to the class as a whole, rather than to a specific object. It is useful when the method does not need to access `instance variable`.


## This

`this` is a keyword that refers to the current object. It is commonly used to distinguish `instance varaible` from parameters when they have the same name.

```java
void appendModelName(String modelName) {
	this.modelName = this.modelName + modelName;
}
```

- `this.modelName`: `instance varialbe` from the class
- `modelName`: parameter that has been received when the method is called


## Constructor

`constructor` is a special method that runs automatically once when an object is created with the `new` keyword. It is used to initialize the object when it is first created. `constructor` must have the same name as the class and must not declare a return type, not even `void`.

```java
int serialNumber;  
static int counter = 0;  
  
BlackBox() {  
    System.out.println("Creating New BlackBox...");  
    this.serialNumber = ++counter;  
    System.out.println("New Serial Number has been assigned: " + this.serialNumber);  
}
```

This `constructor` is automatically called whenever an object is created, and it increases the `counter` value by 1 to assign a unique serial number to each object.

### User-defined constructor

`user-defined constructor` is a `constructor` written by the programmer to initialize an object with specific values when it is created.

```java
BlackBox(String modelName, String resolution, int price, String color) {  
    System.out.println("Creating New user defined BlackBox...");  
    this.modelName = modelName;  
    this.resolution = resolution;  
    this.price = price;  
    this.color = color;  
}
```

This `constructor` takes the values passed during object creation and assigns them to the corresponding `instance variable`.

### this()

`this()` is a special statement that calls another constructor in the same class. It helps reduce duplicate code by allowing `constructor` to share common initialization logic.

```java
BlackBox(String modelName, String resolution, int price, String color) {  
    this();  
    System.out.println("Creating New user defined BlackBox...");  
    this.modelName = modelName;  
    this.resolution = resolution;  
    this.price = price;  
    this.color = color;  
}
```

Now, the `user-defined constructor` will execute the basic `constructor` first.


## Getter and Setter

`getter` and `setter` helps manage an object's data more safely by controlling how its fields are accessed and modified.

- `getter`: It is a method used to access the value of an `instance variable`. It can return a safer or more user-friendly result when the stored value is empty or invalid.

- `setter`: It is a method used to update the value of an `instance variable`. It can validate incoming values to prevent the object from entering an invalid state.

```java
void setPrice(int price) {  
    if(price < 100) {  
        this.price = 100;  
    } else {  
        this.price = price;  
    }  
}  
  
int getPrice() {  
    return price;  
}
```


## Access Modifier

`access modifier` controls the visibility and accessibility of classes, fields, methods and constructors.

- `public`: It can be freely accessed from every class
- `private`: It can only be accessed from inside the class
- `default`: It can be accessed only within the same package
- `protected`: It can be accessed within the same package and from subclasses, even if they are in different packages.

Encapsulation is the process of bundling related data and methods into a single class. An object contains the data and behavior that is responsible for.

Information hiding means hiding the internal data and implementation details of an object from outside access. Important fields are usually declared as `private`, and external code can access or modify them only through public methods.


## Random Class

`random class` can generate random values of different data types, such as integers, floating-point numbers, and booleans. 

- `netxInt` : generate one integer between -2.1 billion and 2.1 billion
- `nextInt(int)`: generate one integer between 0 and integer
- `nextInt(start, end)`: generate one integer between start and end
- `nextDouble()`: generate one double between 0.0 and 1.0
- `nextDouble(double)`: generate one double between 0.0 and double
- `nextDouble(start, end)`: generate one double between start and end
- `nextBoolean()`: generate true or false

