

## Package and Filing

### Rules

- File name and class name should be identical.
- Example: `01_HelloWorld.java` file should include `public class _01_HelloWorld`.
- Use PascalCase for naming files.
- File names cannot start with numbers.
- Avoid using symbols when naming the file.
- Keywords such as `class`, `public`, `static`, `if`, and `for` are forbidden.


## Types of Data

- `String`
	-   Sequence of characters
- `int`
	- Integers
- `double`
	- Real numbers including decimals
- `boolean`
	- True or false
- `char`
	- Single character
- `float`
	- Lower-precision version of double
- `long`
	- Bigger version of 'int'


## Store Value for Variable

- **Declaration**: deciding which type of data the variable is.
- **Assignment**: integrating the value for the variable.

### Example
```java
String name; // Declaration
name = "Daniel"; // Assignment
```
```text
Declaration and assignment can happen at the same time.
```
```java
String name = "Daniel";
int hour = 15;
```


## Reason Why `String` Starts with a Capital Letter While Others Start with Lowercase

`String` is a class, but `int`, `char`, and `boolean` are primitive data types.

##  Declaring Constants

Declare variables as constants by using `final`.

### Example
```java
final String CODE = "KR"; // CODE cannot be altered afterwards
```

### 1. Use the `final` Keyword

- `final` informs Java not to change the value afterwards.
- Allocating an alternative value for a `final String` may cause an error.

### 2. Name the String Using Uppercase

It allows more visibility about the constants.


## Type Casting

### Type Casting Between Numbers

#### `int` → `double`, `float`

##### Symbol
```java
System.out.println((double) intValue);
```

#### `double`, `float` → `int`

The number rounds down, not rounds off. Values after the decimal point are cut off.

##### Symbol
```java
System.out.println((int) doubleValue);
```

### Type Casting Between Number and String

#### Number → String

Method 1: use `String.valueOf()`

##### Symbol
```java
String s1 = String.valueOf(93); // 93
String s2 = String.valueOf(98.9); // 98.9
```

Method 2: use `Integer.toString()` or `Double.toString()`

```java
String s1 = Integer.toString(93);
String s2 = Double.toString(98.8);
```

#### String → Number

- Changing to integer: `Integer.parseInt()`
- Changing to double: `Double.parseDouble()`


## How to Print 2 Decimal Points of `double`

### Example
```java
System.out.printf("%.2f", doubleValue);
```


## Addition of String

### Example
```java
System.out.printf("%.2f: %s%n", doubleValue, stringValue);
```