

## Working with Strings

This section shows methods that help analyze a `String`.
It contains the following methods:
- [[3. String#Measuring the Length of a String|length()]]
- [[3. String#Changing Uppercase and Lowercase|toUpperCase(), toLowerCase()]]
- [[3. String#Detecting Whether the String Contains a Specific Substring|contains()]]
- [[3. String#Locating the Substring|indexOf(), lastIndexOf()]]
- [[3. String#Verifying Whether the String Starts/Ends with the Substring|startsWith(), endsWith()]]


### Measuring the Length of a String

It is the method for measuring the length of the `String` by counting the characters.
It includes every character in the `String`, including alphabet, number, space, period, comma, and special characters.

#### Symbol
```java
exampleString.length()
```
It will show the length of `exampleString`.

### Changing Uppercase and Lowercase

It is used for occasions when the system requires the `String` to be uppercase or lowercase.

#### Symbol
```java
exampleString.toUpperCase()
exampleString.toLowerCase()
```
It converts all the characters into uppercase, lowercase.

### Detecting Whether the String Contains a Specific Substring

It allows you to verify whether the substring is included in the provided `String`.

#### Symbol
```java
exampleString.contains(substring)
```
It detects whether the substring is included and prints out `true` or `false`.
Since it processes uppercase and lowercase as different values, this should be considered.

### Locating the Substring

This method shows the location of the substring.

#### Symbol
```java
exampleString.indexOf(substring)
```
The method returns the index at which a specific substring begins in the `String`.

- If the substring does not exist, it will return `-1`.
- Index starts from `0`.
- When there are multiple substrings existing in the `String`, it will only return the index of the first substring.

#### Symbol
```java
exampleString.lastIndexOf(substring)
```
This method is used when there are multiple substrings. It will return the index at which the last substring begins.


### Verifying Whether the String Starts/Ends with the Substring

It allows you to verify whether the `String` starts/ends with a particular substring.

#### Symbol
```java
exampleString.startsWith(substring)

exampleString.endsWith(substring)
```
This method returns `true` or `false` according to the result.
It is sensitive to uppercase and lowercase.


## Editing the String

This section shows methods that allow you to edit the `String`.
It includes the following methods:
-  [[3. String#Replacing the Substring|replace()]]
- [[3. String#Editing the String#Extracting a Portion of a String|substring()]]
- [[3. String#Editing the String#Removing the Unnecessary Spaces from Both Sides|trim()]]
- [[3. String#Editing the String#Combining Strings|+, concat()]]

### Replacing the Substring

This method allows you to replace a substring with another string.

#### Symbol
```java
exampleString.replace(substring1, substring2)
```
The method will detect all `substring1` and replace them with `substring2`.

### Extracting a Portion of a String

This method allows you to cut off a particular part of the `String`.

#### Extracting a Substring by Specifying Only the Starting Index

It only declares the starting index and extracts the substring from the starting index to the end.

##### Symbol
```java
exampleString.substring(index)
```
The method will return the value from the index to the end.

##### Example
```java
String s = "I like Java and Python and C.";

System.out.println(s.substring(7));
```
```
Outcome

Java and Python and C.
```
The index can be declared by using the `indexOf()` method.

##### Example
```java
String s = "I like Java and Python and C.";

System.out.println(s.substring(s.indexOf("Java")));
```
```
Outcome

Java and Python and C.
```
This approach produces the same result and has the advantage of not requiring manual location of the index of the substring.
If the string changes, the code does not need to be modified as long as the target substring exists.

#### Extracting a Substring by Specifying Both Starting and Ending Indexes

This method extracts only the substring located between the specified begin and end indexes.

##### Symbol
```java
exampleString.substring(startingIndex, endingIndex)
```
It includes the character of the starting index but excludes the character of the ending index.

### Removing the Unnecessary Spaces from Both Sides

There are some occasions where unnecessary spaces are included in the provided value.
These spaces may cause unexpected errors.
This method allows you to remove unnecessary spaces from both sides to preprocess data.

#### Symbol
```java
exampleString.trim()
```
It will remove all the unnecessary spaces.
It only removes the spaces from both sides and leaves the spaces in between the `String`.

### Combining Strings

This is the `String` class version of the `+` operator from arithmetic operators.
This operation is called concatenation.
This allows you to merge strings.

#### Symbol
```java
exampleString1 + exampleString2

exampleString1.concat(exampleString2).concat(exampleString3)
```
It will combine each string, but spaces are not included. Space should be added manually as another `String`.
The `.concat()` method basically shares the same feature with `+`.

#### Occasions When `.concat()` Method Is Used

- It makes the purpose of `String` concatenation more apparent in the code.
- `+` operator is used as both arithmetic operator and concatenation, so it may occasionally cause confusion.
- It integrates naturally with string method chaining.


## Comparing Strings

This section shows methods that compare each `String` and verify whether each `String` is identical.
It includes the following methods:
- [[3. String#Comparing Strings#Verifying Whether Two Strings Are Identical|equals()]]
- [[3. String#Comparing Strings#Ignoring Uppercase and Lowercase|equalsIgnoreCase()]]

### Verifying Whether Two Strings Are Identical

This method allows you to compare two strings and identify whether they are identical.

### Symbol
```java
exampleString1.equals(exampleString2)
```
If `exampleString1` equals `exampleString2`, it will return `true`. If not, it will return `false`.
It is sensitive to uppercase and lowercase.

### Ignoring Uppercase and Lowercase

This method is the version of ignoring uppercase and lowercase.

#### Symbol
```java
exampleString1.equalsIgnoreCase(exampleString2)
```
It is basically the version of ignoring case of `.equals()`.

### Difference Between `equals()` and `==`

- `==` compares whether it is the same object.
- `.equals()` compares the content of the object.

Basically, `==` is asking, "Is it the same object?" and `.equals()` is asking, "Does it have the same content?"

An object is a piece of data created from each class. This class may be `String` or another class.


## Editing String Using Escape Character

Escape characters are combinations of characters used to represent special meanings inside a string.
They are often required to shorten and simplify the code.
When `"` is required in a `String`, Java may misunderstand that the user is trying to end the `String`.

### Commonly Used Escape Characters

- `\n`
- `\t`
- `\"`
- `\'`
- `\\`

### Changing Line

This escape character reduces memory waste by preventing the indiscriminate use of methods like `System.out.println()`.

#### Symbol
```java
"substring1\nsubstring2"
```
The outcome will be two individual lines for each substring.

### Space Between Substrings

This escape character allows a tab between the substrings.

#### Symbol
```java
"substring1\tsubstring2"
```

It will return as:
```
textsubstring1 substring2
```

### Printing Out Quotation Marks

It allows you to print quotation marks, including double quotes and single quotes, in the `String`.

#### Example
```java
System.out.println("He said \"Hi\".");
System.out.println("C:\\Program Files\\Java");
```
```
Outcome

He said "Hi".
C:\Program Files\Java
```

String