
Control statement is a statement that controls the flow of execution in a program.
Conditional statement is type of control statement, that determine which code to execute based on whether a given condition is true or false.


## if Statement

`if Statement` is used to control the program flow.
It allows java to execute different code depending on the conditions.

### Basic structure of if statement

`if Statement` temporarily pauses program execution, evaluates whether a given condition is true or false, and executes predefined code only when the condition is true.

#### Symbol
```java
if(condition) {
	//predifined code that will be executed when condition is true
}
```
Java determine whether the condition is true.
If it is true, it executes the predefined code in the between of curly braces({})

#### Example
```java
int hour = 10; //10am
if (hour < 14) {
	System.out.println("Latte")
}
```
```text
Outcome

Latte
```
Since the condition is true, java printed out Latte.
If hour is greater than 14, it will print out nothing.

### Checking multiple conditions at once

There are some some occasions that multiple conditions should be considered.
[[2. Operator#AND Operator|And operator]] operator checks whether both conditions are true.

#### Example
```java
int hour = 10; //10am
boolean morningCoffee = false; //didn't drink morning coffee

if (hour < 14 && !morningCoffee) {
	System.out.println("Latte")
}	
```
```
Outcome

Latte
```
- `hour < 14` is `true` since `hour` is 10.
- `!morningCoffee` is `true` since `morningCoffee` is false
- both conditions are true, so `System.out.println("Latte")` has been executed.

If only one of the two conditions needs to be satisfied, the [[2. Operator#OR Operator|Or operator]] is used.

#### Example
```java
int hour = 15;//3pm
boolean morningCoffee = false; //didn't drink morning coffee

if (hour < 14 || !morningCoffee) {
	System.out.println("Latte")
}	
```
```
Outcome

Latte
```
Since `!morningCoffee` is true, the predefined code is executed.


## if-else Statement

An `if-else statement` executes one block of code when a condition is true and another block when the condition is false.
The difference between the `if statement` and the `if-else statement` is that the `if statement` executes only when the condition is true, whereas the `if-else staement` can also handle the case when the condition is false.

### Basic structure

#### Example
```java
int hour = 10; //10am  
if (hour < 14) {  
    System.out.println("Latte"); //if it is earlier than 2pm, order latte  
} else {  
    System.out.println("Tea"); //if it is later than 2pm, order tea  
}
```
```
Outcome

Latte
```
This code is designed to order `"Latte"` if `hour` is less than 14. If not, it will order `"Tea"`. Since `hour` = 10, `hour` < 14 is true. Therefore it prints out `"Latte"`. If `hour` is above 14, it will print out `"Tea"`.

### Complex condition

#### Example
```java
int hour = 15; //3pm
boolean morningCoffee = false //didn't have morning coffee

if (hour < 14 || !morningcoffee){
	Sysetm.out.println("Latte")
} else {
	Syetem.out.println("Tea")
}
```
```
Outcome

Latte
```
The program checks whether the time is before 2 PM or whether the user did not have morning coffee. Since `!morningCoffee` evaluates to `true`, the overall condition becomes true, and `"Latte"` is printed.


## Checking multiple conditions

`if statement`, `if-else statement` may include multiple conditions by combining [[2. Operator#AND Operator|And operator]] and  [[2. Operator#OR Operator|Or operator]].

### Example 1: Three conditions with `&&`
```java
int age = 20;
boolean hasTicket = true;
boolean hasID = true;

if (age >= 18 && hasTicket && hasID) {
	System.out.println("Entry allowed");
}
```
```
Outcome

Entry allowed
```
The code will be executed when all three conditions should be true.

### Example 2: Three conditions with ||
```java
int age = 20;
boolean hasTicket = true;
boolean hasID = false;

if ( age >= 18 || hasTicket || hasID) {
	System.out.println("Entry allowed)
}
```
```
Outcome

Entry allowed
```
The code will be executed when one of the three conditions is true.

### Example 3: Mixed Conditions
```java
int age = 20;
boolean hasTicket = true;
boolean isVIP = false;

if ( age >= 18 && hasTicket || isVIP) {
	System.out.println("Entry allowed)
}
```
```
Outcome

Entry allowed
```
The code will be executed when one of the following condition is true;
- adult and have ticket
- is vip

There is no limit on number of conditions, and additional conditions can be added using appropriate combinations of operators.


## else if Statement

`else if statement` allows java to prioritize multiple conditions and select of them.

### Choosing one option from multiple choices

The `else-if` statement checks conditions sequentially from top to bottom, executes only the first condition that evaluates to true, and then exits the entire conditional statement.

Let’s assume a situation where you are ordering a drink.  
The priority of the drink order is:
1. `“Coffee”`
2. `“Orange Juice”`
3. `“Green Tea”`

#### Example
```java
boolean coffee = false;
boolean orangeJuice = true;

if (coffee) {
	System.out.println("Coffee")
} else if (orangeJuice) {
	System.out.println("Orange Juice")	
} else {
	System.out.println("Green Tea")
}
```
```
Outcome

Orange Juice
```
The program checks the conditions sequentially from top to bottom. Since `coffee` is false, the first block is skipped. Then `orangeJuice` is evaluated as true, so `"Orange Juice"` is printed, and the conditional statement exits immediately afterward. The code will return according to the value of `coffe`, `orangeJuice`.

### Expanding else if statement

`else if statement` can be simply expanded by inserting another `else if statement`.

#### Example
```java
boolean coffee = false;
boolean orangeJuice = false;
boolean blackTea = true

if (coffee) {
	System.out.println("Coffee")
} else if (orangeJuice) {
	System.out.println("Orange Juice")	
} else if (blackTea) {
	System.out.println("Black Tea")
} else {
	System.out.println("Green Tea")
}
```
```
Outcome

Black Tea
```
`else if statment` is easy to extend.


## switch-case Statement

`switch-case statement` has same feature as `if statement`. However, it is more concise and clear.
A `case` label in a `switch statement` must be constant value compatible with the type of the `switch` expression.
It may be `String`, `int`, `char`.

### Basic structure

### Symbol
```java
switch(variable) {
	case value1:
		// executes when the value of the variable is a
		break;
	case value2:
		 // executes when the value of the variable is b
		 break;
	...
	case valueN;
		// executes when the value of the variable is N
		break;
	default:
		// executes when none of the above corresponds
}
```

- `switch(varable)`: Specifies the variable that will be used as the basis for comparison
- `case value`: Defines the code to execute when the variable matches the specified value. Multiple `case` blocks can be added.
- `break`: Exits the entire conditional statement after the current `case` block finishes executing. If the `break` keyword is omitted, execution continues into the next `case` block.
- `defalut`: Executes when none of the case values match. It plays the same role as `else` in an `if statement`.

#### Example
```java
int ranking = 2
switch(ranking) {
	case 1:
		System.out.println("$500");
		break;
	case 2:
		System.out.println("$250");
		break;
	case 3:
	 	System.out.println("$250");
	 	break;
	 default:
		 System.out.println("No prize");
}
```
```
Outcome

$250 
```
Since the value of `ranking`is 2, code from `case 2` executes, and returns`"$250".
For value-based conditional branching, the `switch-case statement` is more intuitive than the `if-else if-else` structure. Moreover, the readability of the code improves as the number of conditions increases.

From the example, `case 2` and `case 3` is executing the same action, so it could be shorten;
```java
int ranking = 2
switch(ranking) {
	case 1:
		System.out.println("$500");
		break;
	case 2:
	case 3:
	 	System.out.println("$250");
	 	break;
	 default:
		 System.out.println("No prize");
}
```
```
Outcome

$250 
```

### Omission of break

`break` can be omitted in some occasions.
When each steps continues using the result of the previous calculation, the structure can be designed without using break.

Lets assume the price increases as the grade increases
minimum price: $10
grade 3: $15
grade 2: $20
grade 1: $25

#### Example
```java
int grade = 1
int price = 10
switch (grade) {
	case 1:
		price += 5;
		break;
	case 2:
		price += 5;
		break;
	case 3:
		price += 5;
		break;
	
}
System.out.println("Grade: " + grade + "\nPrice: $")
```
```
Outcome

Grade: 1
Price: $25
```
